Advocacy docs/edb postgres ai/console/estate/docs 596 (#5732)
EnterpriseDB/docs: advocacy_docs/edb-postgres-ai/console/estate/monitor_aws.mdx

---
title: Monitoring AWS resources in EDB Postgres AI 
navTitle: Cloud Hosted Databases - AWS resources
description: How to monitor AWS resources in EDB Postgres AI Estate.
deepToC: true
---

## Overview 

Setting up the EDB Postgres® AI Console to monitor your RDS instances and S3 buckets on AWS involves adding a specific policiy and role in AWS. Once these are configured, you need to enter the role ARN of the newly created role into the **Cloud Hosted Databases** wizard, accessible via the **Estate** page in the EDB Postgres AI Console. 

Using this role ARN and a custom policy, the EDB Postgres AI server will have access to the RDS and S3 information in your AWS account. 

After configuring the wizard with the role ARN, you will see the selected AWS resources (RDS instances and/or S3 buckets) in the chosen AWS regions on your **Estate** page in the **Cloud Hosted Databases** section.

## Setting up monitoring of AWS resources in EDB Postgres AI Estate

### Starting the Cloud Hosted Databases wizard

1. Log into **EDB Postgres AI Console**. 

2. Scroll down to the **Cloud Hosted Databases** section, select the **Manage Access** button, and choose your project.

> 3. The **Cloud Hosted Databases** wizard shows **Step 1 - Create custom policy**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The **Cloud Hosted Databases** wizard shows **Step 1 - Create custom policy**.
```

> 3. The **Cloud Hosted Databases** wizard shows **Step 1 - Create custom policy**

Author: > Less wizard please.

Favorite review comment of all time.

> 3. The **Cloud Hosted Databases** wizard shows **Step 1 - Create custom policy**

Author: But seriously... do you have a suggestion on what to call it? The dev contact I had, Andrew Swartz, called it that, so I went with it.

### Creating the AWS custom policy

> 4. Log into your AWS account with the RDS instances and S3 buckets you want to monitor.

Author: I tried just "Go to your AWS account..."

5. Navigate to IAM, and in the navigation pane on the left side of the AWS console, select **Policies**.

> 6. On the **Policies** dashboard page, select the **Create policy**. button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On the **Policies** dashboard page, select the **Create policy** button.
```

> 6. On the **Policies** dashboard page, select the **Create policy**. button

Reviewer: I believe we have to put the final stop at the end of the step? Or is the dot part of the botton name? 
Still, I thing it would be better to place it at the end, otherwise it looks like a typo. 
```suggestion
6. On the **Policies** dashboard page, select the **Create policy**. button
```

Reviewer: Just checked in AWS and the string/button does not include the final stop, so let's change it here.

7. In the **Policy editor** section, choose the JSON option.

8. Type or paste the following JSON policy document into the JSON editor:

> ```json

Reviewer: I think we could indent this whole code snippet under the 8. step by adding four blank spaces at the beginning of each line.

Author: agreed

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "rds:DescribeDBClusters"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

> 9. Give the policy a name, for instance, **biganimal-beacon-addon-policy**. This policy allows EDB Postgres AI server to query metadata of your AWS RDS and S3 services.

Reviewer 2: That is of course if this is or isn't a prefix value as the next name used 
 requires.

> 9. Give the policy a name, for instance, **biganimal-beacon-addon-policy**. This policy allows EDB Postgres AI server to query metadata of your AWS RDS and S3 services.

Reviewer 2: Oh and are we missing click Next to go to the next page where you can name the policy?

> 9. Give the policy a name, for example, `edb-postgres-ai-addon-policy`. This policy allows EDB Postgres AI server to query metadata of your AWS RDS and S3 services.

Reviewer: I was a bit confused here and went looking for a `name` field, and then realized I had to press next first. Maybe a bit of an overkill, but it might be clearer if we say something like: 
```suggestion
9. Select **Next**, give the policy a name, for example, `edb-postgres-ai-addon-policy`. This policy allows EDB Postgres AI server to query metadata of your AWS RDS and S3 services.
```

### Creating the AWS role

> 10. In the wizard, select the **Next:Create a Role** button. The wizard should now show **Step 2 - Create a Role**.

Reviewer 2: Also, you should really point out that these instructions are shown on the screen. Otherwise if you are following the docs *and* using the software your seeing two very similar sets of instructions.

> 10. In the wizard, select the **Next:Create a Role** button. The wizard should now show **Step 2 - Create a Role**.

Reviewer 2: Oh yes and you need to make clear when you are talking about the EDB Postgres AI Console UI and the AWS Console UI.

> 10. In the wizard, select the **Next:Create a Role** button. The wizard should now show **Step 2 - Create a Role**.

Author: Ok, I think I kept them clear this next draft.

> 10. Next, in the Cloud Hosted Databases UI, select the **Next:Create a Role** button. The Cloud Hosted Databases UI should now show **Step 2 - Create a Role**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Next, in the Cloud Hosted Databases UI, select the **Next: Create a Role** button. The Cloud Hosted Databases UI should now show **Step 2 - Create a Role**.
```

11. In the left-hand navigation pane of the AWS console, choose **Roles** and then select the **Create role** button.

12. Select **Custom trust policy** role type.

13. In the **Custom trust policy** section, paste the following trust policy for the role:

> ```json

Reviewer: Indentation recommendation as above.

Author: got it.

> 11. Now, in the left-hand navigation pane of the AWS console UI, choose **Roles** and then select the **Create role** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Go to the AWS console UI, and in the left-hand navigation pane, choose **Roles** and then select the **Create role** button.
```

> 13. In the **Custom trust policy** section, paste the following trust policy for the role:

Reviewer: Not sure this is the right way to go, but I would make this a bit more direct to avoid customers just copy-pasting what they see below, for example: 
```suggestion
13. In the **Custom trust policy** section, paste the trust policy you obtained from **Step 2** in the Cloud Hosted Databases UI. It looks similar to this:
```

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::292478331082:root"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "sts:ExternalId": "<project-id>"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> !!! Note

Reviewer: This _could_ also be indented.

The EDB Postgres AI Cloud Hosted Databases wizard shows a snippet like the one above but with the `<project-id>` already specified.
!!!

14. Select the **Next** button.

> 15. Select the policy you created earlier. In this example, we used **biganimal-beacon-addon-policy**.

Reviewer: If you change the name above, a reminder to change it here as well. 
Just saying this because I usually forget things that are not explicitly commented 🙈

Author: Got it. Thanks. 👍

16. Select the **Next** button.

17. Give the role a name. Note that you must give the role a name that starts with **biganimal-role**, such as **biganimal-role-beacon**. 

18. Select the **Create role** button.

### Entering the role ARN into the wizard

> 19. Select the **View role** button in the green banner at the top of the **Roles** dashboard in the AWS console.

Author: I am not following this. This step happens for me in the AWS console UI.

> 19. Select the **View role** button in the green banner at the top of the **Roles** dashboard in the AWS console.

Author: Oh you meant the EDB UI, yeah I will let them know.

> 19. Select the **View role** button in the green banner at the top of the **Roles** dashboard in the AWS console.

Author: Let them know in #beacon-ux

20. Copy the role ARN from the Summary section of the Role page in AWS console and paste it into the form at the bottom of the wizard labeled **Role ARN**.

21. Select the **Next: Regions and Services** button in the wizard.

### Selecting the scope of regions and services

> 22. The wizard should now show **Step 3 - Regions and Services**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
22. The wizard now shows **Step 3 - Regions and Services**. 
```

> 22. The wizard should now show **Step 3 - Regions and Services**. 

Reviewer: Yeah, maybe step 22 could be deleted, and 23 would turn into something like:
```suggestion
22. For **Step 3 - Regions and Services**, select the regions that you want to monitor and the services you want to monitor in those regions.
```
(only makes sense if everything is in the same window)

> 22. The wizard should now show **Step 3 - Regions and Services**. 

Author: Got it 👍

23. Select the regions that you want to monitor and the services you want to monitor in those regions.

> 24. Select the **Next: Review and submit** button, review, and then select the **Submit** button.

Author: Got it. There is a page they can review and go back a step if things don't look as expected. I will add something to that effect in the doc.

25. Upon success, you will see a notification in the console UI saying, "The configuration has been submitted successfully."

> 26. Within a moment, you should start to see the **Cloud Hosted Databases** section of your **Estate** page populate with the available S3 buckets and RDS instances.

Author: yep, I will make that clearer
